				DRAGONBALL RPG for the PC
					THE FAQ

                  	 by Roger Nystrom (AADROMA@prodigy.net)



From China comes an MS-DOS Role Playing Game based on the famous tailed boy with hair pointing on 
end, Gokuu. However, since this game comes from China, it's obviously not going to be easy to 
play without either Chinese knowledge (even slight recognition of certain kanji characters that 
are shared with Japanese) or original Dragon Ball knowledge.


					BASIC CONTROLS
					==============
The arrow keys move Gokuu around.  Space is the "Action" key, which makes Gokuu talk to people, 
open chests, choose replies, and the like.  Return gives you three choices: 

ACTION
EQUIP
STATUS

Choosing any of these will then bring up another menu, selecting which character you will be 
doing these actions to.  Action brings up three choices:

USE
GIVE
DROP

Use obviously uses the object; note that, if you want to give to someone, you use this action.  
Give will only give to another member of your party.  Note that, once you drop something, you 
CANNOT, ever ever EVER (did I mention ever?) get it back.

Equip will let you select from your inventory which weapon you will equip the party member in 
question with.  Status brings up what your character is equipped with in the lower left hand 
corner (Head Protection, Left Hand, Right Hand, Shield, Armor). The rest tells level, life, 
maximum life, experience needed for a level increase, and the like (not in that order - I've yet 
to figure out all the data myself.)

Shops are everywhere;  A building with a sword is the weapon shop, one with a shield is an armor 
shop, a heart represents an inn, and a bottle represents magic, life restoring items, and all 
other miscellaneous items.  To do business, go up to the shopkeeper, be sure you're parallel with 
him or her, and press space. The two options are buy and sell.

Other options are brought up by pressing escape; Pressing left and right moves the cursor, and up 
and down moves a guage if there is on for that particular option. The options are:

MUSIC LEVEL
?! (Hasn't done anything for me)
TEXT SPEED
SAVE
LOAD
QUIT


					ATTACK MODE
					===========
The menu is set up like so:

ATTACK
MAGIC
ITEM
RUN

Attack is self-explanatory; Magic lets you choose between certain moves, but you need enough MP 
to actually pull off the move.  If the character doesn't pull off a move, it's probably because 
they don't have enough points to do it.  Item will let you select something from your inventory 
to use, be it a health increaser or another item, like Bulma's Dynamite, which can be used as a 
weapon.  Run escapes the enemy, but isn't usually too successful.  If attacking, using magic, or 
using an item as a weapon, you will then be able to select which enemy you want to hit.

Be sure not to get Gokuu killed, or the game ends.



				PARTIAL WALKTHROUGH
				===================


Gokuu's Starting Inventory:
	Light Heal
	Light Heal
	Transfer

Light Heal is for battles; it heals up to 50 hit points.  It can be used in battle or in towns.  
Transfer will teleport you to a town you've previously visited; it's pretty much useless for now.

By going right, and following the path downwards from the house with the well, you will see a 
blond girl with a purple uniform and beret.  This is Bulma (yes, I know she has bluish-purple 
hair and doesn't look like that at all, but trust me, it's her).  Talk to her, and when she asks 
you to help her find the seven Dragon Balls, hit space and select yes. Picking no will get you 
eternally stuck, since she will ignore you and you won't be able to leave town without her.


Bulma's Starting Inventory:
	Dynamite
	Dynamite
	Dynamite
	Dynamite
	Dynamite

Keep going down, and you'll find a weapon shop to the left, and an armor shop to the right.  The 
enemies outside the towns are pretty brutal, and I've found it to be more beneficial in the long 
run to think defensive before anything else.  Since Bulma is a weaker character, she will take 
damage more quickly, thus I usually buy her a 2nd class armor (18th item). To buy an item in any 
shop, go up to the clerk, be sure you are parallel to him/her, and press space.  Pressing space 
again will buy an item; pressing down and space will select sell, which you can do with her old 
armor after you equip her with her new armor.

Follow the path further, and you will eventually find Gokuu's house.  Be sure to pick up the 
Grand Life Refill (refills more than the Increasers that Gokuu starts off with) and the first 
Dragon Ball.

Other points of interest in Gokuu's town: There is an inn in town, but it usually isn't worth the 
80 gold pieces until you get into the higher levels.  There is a magic/general items shop that 
sells Life Increasers for 25 GP each.  After you sell Bulma's old armor, buy as many of these as 
you can early in the game.  You'll notice that the town's exit is blocked by a big boulder.  Go 
up to it and use Bulma's Dynamite on it.

Out of town: Don't stray from town until you can get your level up, or you WILL get your ass 
kicked.  Level 3 or 4 will do nicely.  Until then, stick by the town.  If you get a prompt to 
enter some code, just enter any numbers you like and hit enter.  Move back and forth until you 
get attacked.   The first battle will be the toughest.  It's a good idea to use Bulma's Dynamite 
on stronger enemies (the ones that look like they have tentacles), but be sure you have one in 
reserve! You'll need it.  Gokuu has enough MP to squeeze out his first Magic attack, but that's 
it.  If your health drops to 30% or less, use your Life Increasers or the Grand Life Refill.  
Once you win, go back in town, heal yourself, buy more Life Increasers, and go out.  Eventually 
the battles will become easier, and you will be able to buy armor for Gokuu, weapons, and the 
like.  Note that before you start improving Bulma's equipment, take into account that she can't
use a lot of the items.  Save before you even think about upping her equipment.

NOTE: If you don't feel like doing this level gaining bull, simply load game one.  Gokuu will 
have all the best weapons; Bulma still needs alot of work, but she can survive.

Outside Map: using Gokuu's town as an orient point, there are three other towns in this part of 
Gokuu's world; going south will bring you to the Cave Town.  Going right from the Cave Town will 
bring you to a town where you will find KameSennin's turtle, and going north from that town will 
bring you to the town being tortured by the elusive Oolong.

First, go to the town with the turtle (its appearance is one hut on the map).  The turtle can't 
go back to sea because there seems to be yet another big old boulder blocking his path (they grow 
plentiful in these parts ^_^).  Use Bulma's Dynamite by the rock, and talk to the turle.  He will 
bring KameSennin, and he in turn will give you two items; the first is a gift offering, and the 
second is the wind-producing item you'll need to put out a fire later in the game.

Go to the town above which is having problems with Oolong kidnapping girls; talk to everyone in 
that town, and Oolong will appear.  Talk to him and agree to fight him.  He's pretty much a wuss, 
and he will ask to join your party.  Accept and you'll now have three team members! Then, talk to 
the man standing still (he's somewhat next to the Chun-Li-looking woman walking around).  He will 
give you the second Dragon Ball you need.

Now go to the Cave Town.  A man will be blocking your path; give him the offering KameSennin gave 
you.  He'll stroll off and you'll be able to look through the Cave Town.  You'll see little 
mounds, one with a hole in it - it's to the right of the town.  Going through this cave will 
bring you underground, where there will be a passage to Fire Mountain. You'll have to fight the 
Ox King, but once you win, you can go in his castle, which will be burning up.  Use the wind 
technique (I'd say Kamehameha, but it seems to be more of just a one-time wind burst in this 
game) by the fire that's in your way.  It will go out, and you'll find the third Dragon Ball 

There are more caves, and they lead to various castles, one where you meet up with Korin.  
However, there are still things that I've yet to do, but this will get you through at least 
30-40% of the game.  If you can remember where in God's name the rest of the Dragon Balls are, by 
all means, tell me! It's been a while since I saw the original show...