					    GUNDAM Z AT A GLANCE
							by 
				Richard Mitchell (bloodcat@mindport.net)


Price: 64.99 US dollars through Game Cave mail order and a local game store.
Publisher: Bandai (Probably the Japanese division)
Format: 1 Sega Saturn CD ROM
Game Style:  Side Scrolling action game
Difficulty: Very High
Estimated time to complete game: 15-20 hours (Due to difficulty)
Knowledge of Japanese to Play the Game:  Very little, Game Menus and Player info in English
Knowledge of Japanese to Fully Enjoy the Game: Probably a 5th or 6th grade reading/speaking level 
							     I would guess.
Appeals to: Fans of games like Target Earth, Cybernator, Assault Suit Lemnos 2, Gundam Fans, and 
		Mechaheads.

Review Time
-----------
Graphics: 7.  
	The game sprites are all nice big renders, but they dont have many frames of animation to 
	them.  The intermissions look to be taken from the Gundam Z TV show, but I cannot be sure of 
	that.  The intermission anime is full screen, but looks compressed and a few frames taken 
	out here and there.  Not up to a Namco game intro, or Sony's Wild Arms intro.   But there is 
	a lot of them though.

Play Control: 7.  
	While the moves are pretty simple to learn for the most part, they are usually slow to 
	perform, and you can only do 1 action at a time effectively.

Level Design: 3.  
	The levels are usually flat land or space, a few enemies to fight, and a really tough boss.  
	There is occasional text/speech intermissions in the levels you cant fast forward through.  
	That is not good considering how many times you are going to have to replay each level 
	before winning.  

Difficulty: 5.  
	While you can save after each mission, (It only takes 1 point of save space!!!!) and earn 
	exp for how many enemies you killed, the levels are short and the bosses waaay to hard to 
	beat easily.  You might like that, however.....

Overall: 6.  
	While not a BAD game, it does have a few issues that keep me from giving a shining 	"GO 
	BUY IT!!", this may be due to my not knowing all of the moves (There are a few special 
	moves you can do, but its in Japanese, so I dont know how to do them), and not being able 
	to effectively follow the storyline... SO?  

My view:  
	Try the game out, then buy it if you like it..  I do enjoy the game, but I have been 
	needing a good challenge.

Final note:  
	I will have more info on the gameplay/story in my upcoming mini FAQ, and anyone who can 
	translate the manual into English would get my shining praise.

My name: Richard MitchellReach me at: bloodcat@mindport.net